There are a lot of questions that have come in. One question is that we give water to the sun. I don't have blind faith. The question is how do we get it? Does it happen or not? This seems like a good question.
Do you offer water? Yes, we do. How many people offer water? Raise your hands. It is everyone's job. Do you offer water? Do they get it? How do they get it? Water falls where you drop it. Then how does it go to them? Tell me.
What, what? After offering? Here you go. Bhushan says that if you offer water, it is Vaspi Karan. That's a good thing. Vaspi Karan also happens.
This is a good thing, not a bad thing. There is another question. When we chant mantras, we can hear the mantra or the name of God, but we cannot see Him.
Do they listen or not? And what we do, how can we do it better? The question is good or not? Some intelligent man has written it. First let's deal with Suraj Bhagwan. Okay?
Namo Bhaskaraya Devaya
Devaya Prakasam Svarupakam Namastupyam Divakarah Namo Namaha
Surya Narayan Bhagavan Ki Jai Bhagavan Surya Ko Jal Dena Aur Yaha Se Bhagavan Surya Ki Doori Kitne Laakh Mile Hai Samajh Rahe Hain Na Aur Unko Prapt Ho Jana
It feels as if you are chewing on an iron bar. If you chew on an iron bar, your teeth will end. But the bar will not end. Do you understand? Now, how true is it that we,
They offer water to God, and he receives that water. Look, there is blind faith, but this is not blind faith. Many people are against this,
It's like blind faith. But I am the one who gives. Do you understand? So I will support you. Do you understand? Now look at water and sun. How do they connect?
This is nature. In nature, five elements are the main elements. How many elements are there? Five. Five elements. And in the five elements, in the Ramayana, Sri Goswami Dasi Maharaj has written,
Chitral pavak nagana Sameera Chitral pavak nagana Sameera Chitral pavak nagana Sameera
Panjara jeetaiyaha
PANCH TATVA SE DEHA BANA HAI PANCH TATVA SE DEHA BANA HAI PANCH TATVA SE
In five, there is life in this world In five, there is life in this world In five, there is life
What do you mean?
And our Gurudev said, Child, everything is contained in these five elements. One is the body, and all the things that are in this nature, all of them, from these five elements,
are created and are integrated in the five elements. Now, these five elements, the body is created, but these five elements are destroyed. They don't exist, they are lost. Like the prince,
You dig up the soil, you make a pit, you drink tea and milk and throw it away. Then it becomes soil. But that soil, these five elements keep coming together, keep breaking apart, but those five elements never get destroyed.
you
Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram
This Pancha Tattva that we have
How is this possible? Like a potter... You all know about clay pots, right? A potter goes to the fields... ...and digs soft clay and brings it back. He makes a pot, a potter, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot, a potter's pot,
And it breaks again, and again in the soil. There is a saying of Kabir Saheb. It is written in it. The soil says to the potter, The soil says to the potter, Why do you cry?
One day it will come like this, if I let it be. You understand, right? The same soil, which the kumar brings, and makes everything like a machine, and then it gets mixed in it. Just like that.
There is a prince who creates mankind. Who is he? A prince. In this universe, there are 8.4 million different forms of creation. The 8.4 million who are in the process of discovering science, have reached near and far.
But Baba told me, child... The next part of the child...
and then divide it by a hundred, and then divide it by a thousand. Such a subtle being is born, which cannot be seen with any instrument. Such a subtle being is born. Now, for such a subtle being, such an instrument has not yet been made.
84 lakh srishti hai aur anand ki baat hai ki sabhi srishti ekdum sucharu roop se chal raha hai kahi koi kami nahi hai toh jaise kumhar ka banaya hua vartan nasht ho ke viti mein mil jata hai aise hi
A saint once said, Ek kumara bet ke angan, ek kumara bet
Mithi jaak chala weh Mithi jaak chala weh Mithi jaak chala weh Mithi jaak chala weh Lai lai paani haan toh tere Lai lai paani haan
Kumbhara bheka aise hi kumbhara bheka aise hi
Nara Nari Ke Ang Di Milte Julte Ho Jaati Hai Milte Julte Ban Jaati Hai
Sadhguru chants Sanskrit chants
It is very difficult to survive.
Ram bhaj, Ram bhaj, Ram bhaj, pyaare. Ram bhaj, Ram bhaj, Ram bhaj, pyaare. Tum Sri Ram ji ke Ram ji tumhare. Tum Sri Ram ji ke Ram ji tumhare. Tum Sri Ram ji ke Ram ji tumhare. Tum Sri Ram ji ke Ram ji tumhare.
Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram
Vanadas has also said, Two kinds of soil meet. Both move together. And eat each other. Become a man-woman.
The union of a man and a woman creates two types of soil. Both of them keep moving in the same direction. When they meet, they eat each other and form a universe. Do you understand? Science says that both are mucous. Mucous means Kapha. Kapha is like your TV. Some people have a watch on it.
TV insects. In the same way, in a sperm, there is a living being. That living being and the mother's living being meet. The mother's living being eats the male living being. What does it do? It eats. And after eating, we become God.
It is his creation. Do you understand? It is his wonderful creation. The poet said that Ramji's creation is wonderful. It is difficult to escape from it. That's why don't fall in love too much, don't get lost in the search too much. The poet said directly, just do Ram Ram.
And the day you start chanting Ram, Ram, Ram, and become Ram, you will begin to understand His creation. And the day you begin to understand His creation, you will begin to experience His grace. So this soil, this soil is a wonderful thing.
Out of these five elements, the most important element in the universe is water. What is water? It is 75% in our body and in this earth. After that, the second element is fruit. What is fruit?
which is also present in our body. What is Thal? It is a bone. A bone is a mountain in the universe. What is it? A mountain. And Thal is flesh, soil. And what comes on the third number? Water. Soil. And what comes on the third number? Air.
Let's put the air on the third number. Understood? Now, the air. Water is 70-75%. Divide that by earth. And divide that by air. And divide that by fire. And divide that by
This is also too much. It is less than that. Understood? So, in this way. Now, this is the method of the creation of our body. Now, in this, the sky element has come. And where is the sun? In the sky.
This is something to listen to carefully. There shouldn't be any mistake in this, or else your water will remain here. The Sun God won't take it. The sky is the lowest element. And where does the Sun God reside? In the sky. And who orders you to offer water?
Aakash Tattva. Please pay attention. Which Tattva is it? Aakash Tattva. Aakash Tattva is our body. Whatever we do, our hands are moving, our tongue is moving, and there is something else going on in the mind.
The heart is also beating, the liver is also moving, everything is moving. All these are the karmas of the Akash tattva. In that tattva, in that tattva, the Akash tattva is in the head. Where is it? In the head. And the Sun God is also in the head. Did you understand? In the same way, there is a layer in the Sanrasana, there is water below,
The earth, the air, the fire, and above all, the sky. So the sky is the element that gives us the command to move. Today we didn't give water, we didn't drink water. Let's go and get some water. Secondly, all the mantras, etc., where do they originate from? From the sky.
And where are the lanes? In the Akash Tattva. You understand, right? So who gave the order? The Akash Tattva. Who said the mantra? The Akash Tattva. And? At the behest of the Akash Tattva, we got the pot, the water, and the Akash Tattva supported the Akash Tattva.
Samrat ke nahin kuchh gosai. Samrat ke nahin kuchh gosai. Ravi pavak surat sari ke nahin. Ravi pavak surat sari ke nahin.
Samrat ke nahin udbe gosai Rabi pavak sun sari
Samrath ke nahi dosa kosa hai. Rabi me tej, agan savroop hai. Rabi me tej, agan savroop hai.
Agni savroop hai Agni suraj tez ji Agni suraj tez ji
Dono hi ek jaise hote hai Dono hi ek jaise hote hai
Veda Veda Veda Veda Veda Veda
Oh.
Yeah, man.
Agni and Surj both are one and the same. There is not much difference between them. So, the sky element has given an order. To whom? To the body. To whom did it give the order? To the body. What did it give the order? To climb the water.
Akash tattva ne aadesh diya sareen ko haath tayaar hua haath ne lota pakda akash tattva ne aadesh diya jal ko kisko? jal ko bhi aadesh diya jal lote miya yaa haath ko isse bana liya naddi me naha rahe hai aur jal charahane lage
yehi surje sahastranso tejo rasi jagat pate anukam payama mahatta granarga divartarah
Slowly, slowly, I am reciting the mantra. The water is like a stream. This is the way to offer water. When your stream falls, the sun touches the stream. The sun is visible in front of you. The stream touches it and goes down. You understand, right?
When this happens, the mantra is the power of the sky, and the power of the sky has given the order, and the power of the sky is carrying it. Water falls on the earth, or if it falls from the roof, it goes to the roof.
By going through the roof and searching for the way, one can even find the gutters. Now, Goswami ji has said, It is not the ability that is at fault, but the fault is the anger. Rabi pavak sur sari ki, Rabi pavak sur sari.
Ravi means Sun, Pavak means fire and Sursari means Ganga. In Gangaji, how many rivers, streams, everything is there, but Ganga. Ganga is there, but always, the husband is a wanderer. Similarly,
ek agni aapke ghar mein bhojan bana raha hai dusri agni mein swaha om namo narayanaya swaha om namo narayanaya dusri agni mein yagya ho raha hai aur vahi agni tisri jagah mein
Chita ko zala rahi. Samajh rahe hain? Ek hi agni, alag alag jaga pe, alag alag pariyog mein liya jaa raha hai. Aise hi ek hi surya, jal pe bhi pad raha hai.
He is making everything dry. What is He doing? He is making everything dry. He makes everything dry only when He will exploit the water. Why is anything wet? Because it contains water. That is why it is said,
The same fire burns the pyre, but we bow to it. The fire worships God. In the same way, everyone goes to Ganga-ji, Yamuna-ji is also found in Ganga-ji. All the rivers and streams are found, we bow to them. The same is the case with God and the sun. Everyone is a customer.
The river, the canal, the goods, the urine, all the things that have water, they exploit them all. That is why we say that they are capable. What are they? They are capable and they do not feel guilty. The water that you give them, they also exploit it in the same way.
And when we chant mantras, we say mantras, at that time, through the sound of the mantra, water, the mantra itself is attained by them. The water falls there itself. The water is later absorbed. The mantra attains them. And this,
With this kind of science, today's materialistic science is also surprised that how big an investment it is, how big a science is hidden in it. Today's scientists are not able to understand. They are searching, they are reaching, but not so deeply.
So this is also a science. What is it? Science, discovery. All the mantras, what are they? They are all discoveries. So in this way, the water that we give to the Sun God, He gets it. There is no doubt about it. And water should be given.
Let me tell you one more thing. In which pot do we give more water to the sun god? In the copper pot. Why do we give it in the copper pot? The steam has become very famous these days. You don't know, do you? When the sun god comes out, what colour does he appear? He doesn't appear in the colour of copper. You understand, don't you?
Tamra is in colour, and the colour of the Tamra and the colour of the Sun are the same. And as soon as the Sun's rays fall on that pot, a connection is formed between the Tamra and the Sun. What is formed? A connection. And the Sun immediately accepts it.
Do you understand? Similarly, fire. In the Vedas, the color of fire is also called tamravarna. Do you understand? Tamravarna. In this way, there are many things that we don't know about, but we do. And it is successful. There is no doubt about it.
There is a lot to offer, one bucket at a time. One bowl will do the trick. If you are comfortable, keep chanting mantras and offering water. And we don't go out to offer water. We bathe in the river.
This is how we make it. Like this. Like this. The anal is falling. And from where it is, we chant. We put our hand down. The water is gone. Where did it go? In the hand. Now, after that, wherever the water goes, our responsibility is over. You understand?
When I watered it, it came back to me. I don't have any problem with that. When I water it, I think of the rising sun. Which one? God, Lord Hanuman, had the same problem. Do you understand?
Naradakta Varnaam. Amra Varnaam. So, in this way, the water that is given to Bhagwan Surya, reaches him. What does it mean to reach? He takes it by the hand. Give it to me, brother. What's the hurry? You understand, right? Because it's a mantra. Now I'll tell you the second one. Jagat Sarvam Daivadhinam.
mantrādhīnasya devatā te mantrā brāhmaṇādhīnaṁ tasmāta brāhmaṇadevatā And we, the sadhus, are for all this. We say, jagat sarvam daivādhīnam mantrādhīnasya devatā
Now the world, this whole world, is under the control of God. God means Ishwar. God, who created it. And that Ishwar is under whose control?
Mantra ke aadheen. Kis ke aadheen? Mantra ke aadheen. Aur woh mantra kis ke aadheen hai? Jo uska jaap karta hai. Aap samajh gaye? Woh mantra aapke aadheen hai. Kyonki aap jaapak hai.
Jagat Sarvam Daivadhinam Mantra Dhinasya Devata De Mantra Jaap Ka Dhinam And the one who chants, when he chants mantras, you have the quality of being a deity. Which quality of being a deity? Being a deity. You understand, right? At that time,
Devatva Kunalata. So now see, Jagat Sarvam Daiva Dhinan and Mantra Dhinascha, Surya Bhagwan's Mantra is being said. You are in the possession of that Mantra. And the time when you chant the Mantra while giving water,
We take it, there is no doubt about it. In this way, Bhagwan Suraj takes your water. No matter how far apart we are, He still takes it. That is, no matter how far apart we are, He still comes close.
Do you understand? The poet said... Where do people look for me? I am with you. Where do people look for me? I am with you. Where do people look for me? I am with you.
mo ko kaha dhunde pyaare main toh tere paath main main toh tere paath main main toh tere paath main main toh tere paath main main toh tere paath main mo ko kaha dhunde pyaare
Namaya Mandir Namaya Masjida
Namahe Mandir, Namahe Masjid. Namahe Mandir, Namahe Masjid. Nakabe Kailasme, Nakabe Kailasme. Nakabe Kailasme, Nakabe Kailasme.
Yeah.
I am in your faith. I am in your faith.
It's so good!
Jai Jai Ram
Siddhanta.
Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram Ram
In this way, do not doubt the water of the Sun God. Today your doubt is solved. It should be complete. Because doubt is the soul's destruction. The scripture says that the work done in doubt is not successful.
So, don't be in doubt.